Identity verification example (#3822)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: astro/src/content/blog/identity-verification-before-registration.mdx

* abuse of the system by malicious actors, such as sending offensive messages to other users

You can mitigate some issues by using [email verification](/docs/lifecycle/manage-users/verification/gate-accounts-until-user-email-verified). Email verification sends a code or link to the email address provided during registration. This proves the provided email address is real and the user has access to the email account. You can gate account access until such verification occurs. You can delete accounts that haven't been verified after a certain period of time as well, keeping your user database tidy.

{/* TODO mention phone verification when it ships */} 

However, this might not be enough. After all, spammers can get valid email addresses. You may need more assurance that the provided identity is real. You can look beyond the email address, and consider other provided profile data such as a first name and mailing address. Even with the email, you can look at the age of the domain, whether the address has been seen elsewhere, and how long it has existed. Accumulating this data and the logic to verify an identity isn't something you have to build on your own, though.

> With FusionAuth, you can use a lambda and an external service to gain more insight into the validity of a provided identifier such as an email address or phone number.

Author: Thanks! I added it above in the overview.

</Aside>

Let's take a look at how the Fideo identity verification API works.

## The Fideo Identity Verification API

With this API, you provide as much or as little information about the user as you have. You must have either an email address or a phone number, but you can also add the user's address or name as well.

Here's an example API call using curl.

```shell
curl -X POST \
  https://api.fideo.ai/verify \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer APIKEY' \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
  "emails": [ "test@example.com" ]
}'
```

The API returns JSON similar to this:

```
{
  "risk": 0.04188683684800404,
  "checks": [
    {
      "id": "BREACHED_IDENTITY_COMPROMISED",
      "state": "LOW",
      "name": "Identity Compromised 30 days or more ago",
      "description": "The identity has been compromised 30 days or more ago, which could indicate a low potential fraud attempt.",
      "risk": "LOW",
      "checkPackage": "Breached"
    }, 
     ...  many more checks
  ],
  "referenceId": "0197ecce-9332-7e4d-9f49-a648b3ca807f"
}
```

> Consult [the Fideo docs](https://docs.fideo.ai/docs/verify#api-output) for details about these fields. Contact them directly to discuss what makes sense for your use case. A KYC flow for a bank would use different checks and logic than an online gaming company trying to keep bots out.

Reviewer: What's a "KYC flow"?

For the purpose of this tutorial, the logic will rely heavily on the top level `risk` value. The `risk` is a number between 0 and 1, with 0 being safe and 1 being as risky as it gets.

Let's head back to set up the FusionAuth system to integrate with this API using an example application.

## Set Up FusionAuth

First, you need to get FusionAuth running and configured.

The simplest way to run FusionAuth is to install it on your development machine (which is probably the laptop you are reading this on). Pick your preferred method of installation below. 

<DownloadWidget kickstartEnabled={true} kickstartName={"identity-verification"} kickstartCustomizationInstructions={["Replace LICENSE_KEY with the FusionAuth license key.","Replace FIDEO_API_KEY with your Fideo API Key."]} />

Kickstart will set up FusionAuth with the correct configuration for this use case. This includes:

> * a sample Changebank application with a custom look and feel

Reviewer: Just as a note, this will likely change in the not-so-distant future to remove Changebank and replace with something simpler and more FusionAuth-branded, so mentions like this will need to be updated. In preparation for such potential changes, it might be good to just remove the word "Changebank" so updates later aren't required.

Author: acknowledged.

> * an admin user with an email of "<RemoteValue url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-kickstart/refs/heads/main/identity-verification/kickstart.json" selector="$.variables.adminEmail" />" and a password of "<RemoteValue url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-kickstart/refs/heads/main/identity-verification/kickstart.json" selector="$.variables.adminPassword" />".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* an admin user with an email of "<RemoteValue url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-kickstart/refs/heads/main/identity-verification/kickstart.json" selector="$.variables.adminEmail" />" and a password of "<RemoteValue url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-kickstart/refs/heads/main/identity-verification/kickstart.json" selector="$.variables.adminPassword" />"
```

> * an advanced registration form which asks for email address, password and first name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* an advanced registration form which asks for email address, password, and first name
```
Oxford comma

![A screenshot of the registration screen when registration fails.](/img/blogs/identity-verification/registration-denied.png)

Then try to register with a real email address of yours, such as a `gmail.com` address. Since this is a real email address, it has a low risk value. The registration will succeed and you will be logged in.

![A screenshot of the registration screen with an email address that will succeed.](/img/blogs/identity-verification/registration-will-succeed.png)

Click <Breadcrumb>Logout</Breadcrumb> to log out from this account.

## A Closer Look At The Validation Logic

Let's take a look at the JavaScript code for the self-service registration lambda ([full code here](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-kickstart/blob/main/identity-verification/lambdas/fideo.js)).

Here's the validation function that Kickstart installed for you:

<RemoteCode 
   url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-kickstart/refs/heads/main/identity-verification/lambdas/fideo.js"
   language="javascript" 
   tags="validate" />

This code does the following:

> * retrieves our Fideo API key from the application's configuration (where the Kickstart put it)

Reviewer: "where the kickstart put it" is pretty vague; where _did_ the kickstart put it?

"from the application's configuration in XYZ (where the Kickstart put it)"

* extracts profile data from the user, which they provided during registration
* makes a request to the Fideo API
* examines the API response and compares the calculated risk to a configured threshold

If the value is above the threshold, the code adds an error. If it is below the threshold, the registration succeeds.

The threshold value is defined in the lambda function:

<RemoteCode 
   url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-kickstart/refs/heads/main/identity-verification/lambdas/fideo.js"
   language="javascript" 
   tags="failthreshold" />

Storing the Fideo API key on the application object makes the key easier to rotate without modifying the lambda code. But the value is not secret; it is still available to API keys and users with sufficient access. There's an open GitHub issue to add [lambda secrets management](https://github.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-issues/issues/1629).

The error the user sees is stored in the [`messages.properties` file](/docs/customize/look-and-feel/advanced-theme-editor#displaying-messages). This file contains all of the messages displayed to end users. It can be customized and localized as well.

> If the API is not available or the request times out, this code fails open. In other words, it defaults to allowing registrations. Whether this is correct behavior depends on your domain. A KYC flow for a bank has different risk tolerance than an online gaming company trying to keep bots out.

Reviewer: Define KYC flow above

Navigate to <Breadcrumb>Customizations -> Lambdas</Breadcrumb>. Find and edit the `Fideo Self Service Registration Validation` lambda. Change the `FAIL_THRESHOLD` value at the top of the edit screen to `0.99`. This threshold lets almost any identity successfully register.

![A screenshot of the admin lambda screen.](/img/blogs/identity-verification/modify-lambda.png)

Save the new lambda code by clicking the <InlineUIElement>Save</InlineUIElement> button at the top right.

To test this change: 

* Open up the browser you used previously to register and visit [localhost:8080](http://localhost:8080).
* Click the "To get started, create a new account." link.
* Register with the `test@example.com` user.

> They were denied last time but now can register because of the relaxed threshold.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same registration was denied last time, but can register now because of the relaxed threshold.
```

Either way, keep an eye on the failure rate and tweak your business logic to balance between letting users register and preventing fake registrations. The exact ratio depends on how costly each of these are.

If the user is flagged, you can offer alternate registration mechanisms. You could let them register using a chatbot or customer support ticket. Tracking these lets you know if the identity verification logic needs to be changed.

### Tracking Failures With Fetches

You can make a fetch call for every failed registration.

Here's a sample implementation which captures the failed email address. This is called when the risk threshold is reached.

<RemoteCode 
   url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-kickstart/refs/heads/main/identity-verification/lambdas/fideo.js"
   language="javascript" 
   tags="registrationfailfetch" />

This requires you to set up a remote API.

> ### Tracking Failures With Fetches

Reviewer: This is the same heading as line 259

Author: good catch, thanks!

You can also create an event log entry. In this case, you make a `console.log` function call when the risk threshold is reached. This creates an Event Log entry.

<RemoteCode 
   url="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/FusionAuth/fusionauth-example-kickstart/refs/heads/main/identity-verification/lambdas/fideo.js"
   language="javascript" 
   tags="registrationfaillog" />

> You can be notified of this via the Event Log webhook](/docs/extend/events-and-webhooks/events/event-log-create). You can also poll [the event logs](/docs/apis/event-logs#search-event-logs) for the prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can be notified of this via the Event Log webhook](/docs/extend/events-and-webhooks/events/event-log-create). You can also poll [the event logs](/docs/apis/event-logs#search-event-logs) for the `'fideo-registration-failed '` prefix.
```

Author: I will add that in. Was trying to not add it because I didn't want to overly tie the javascript to the blog post, but agree it makes the search process clearer.

Event log entries are only written if debugging is enabled for this lambda.

## Next Steps

Congrats on finishing the tutorial! But since you already have it up and running, you can explore more.

Other areas you might want to explore using this sample app include:

* change the registration to collect [registration data over more than one page](/docs/lifecycle/register-users/advanced-registration-forms#create-a-form)

> * update the form to collect more on registration, such as last name, phone number or zip code, and pass the additional information to the Fideo API for more precise scoring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* update the form to collect more on registration, such as last name, phone number, or zip code, and pass the additional information to the Fideo API for more precise scoring
```
